Although semiconductors are still a major component of the area's economy, Silicon Valley has been most famous in recent 
years for innovations in software and Internet services. Silicon Valley has significantly influenced computer operating 
systems, software, and user interfaces.
Using money from NASA and the United States Air Force, Doug Engelbart invented the mouse and hypertext-based 
collaboration tools in the mid-1960s, while at Stanford Research Institute (now SRI International). When Engelbart's 
Augmentation Research Center declined in influence due to personal conflicts and the loss of government funding, 
Xerox hired some of Engelbart's best researchers. In turn, in the 1970s and 1980s, Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) 
played a pivotal role in object-oriented programming, graphical user interfaces (GUIs), Ethernet, PostScript, and 
laser printers.
While Xerox marketed equipment using its technologies, for the most part its technologies flourished elsewhere. 
The diaspora of Xerox inventions led directly to 3Com and Adobe Systems, and indirectly to Cisco, Apple Computer, 
and Microsoft. Apple's Macintosh GUI was largely a result of Steve Jobs' visit to PARC and the subsequent hiring of 
key personnel. Cisco's impetus stemmed from the need to route a variety of protocols over Stanford's campus Ethernet.
Silicon Valley is generally considered to have been the center of the dot-com bubble, which started in the mid-1990s 
and collapsed after the NASDAQ stock market began to decline dramatically in April 2000. During the bubble era, 
real estate prices reached unprecedented levels. For a brief time, Sand Hill Road was home to the most expensive 
commercial real estate in the world, and the booming economy resulted in severe traffic congestion.
After the dot-com crash, Silicon Valley continues to maintain its status as one of the top research and development 
centers in the world. A 2006 The Wall Street Journal story found that 12 of the 20 most inventive towns in America 
were in California, and 10 of those were in Silicon Valley. San Jose led the list with 3,867 utility patents filed 
in 2005, and number two was Sunnyvale, at 1,881 utility patents.
